there's a war going on on the streets
right now two tribes two wheels versus
four wheels bicyclists versus caressed
speaking personally as both a cyclist
and a driver I hate myself but should I
is it true that to provide
infrastructure for one tribe you have to
screw things up for the other or can we
learn to live side by side or one behind
the other or weaving in and out of each
other
[Music]
as discussed in the previous episode
we've now got lovely cycle superhighways
but unfortunately progress for cycling
infrastructure has been somewhat
grinding somewhat to a halt the current
mayor Sadiq Khan and I'm sorry to say
this because I really like him has been
pretty rubbish for cycling he's
cancelled cycling projects left right
and straight down the middle
his only achievement so far has been the
quiet ways the quiet ways are a benign
and barely noticeable network of
signposts and tip exceeding cyclists on
to less busy roads but it's hard to
imagine who will benefit from them not
timid new cyclists because they still
have to share with cars and not
experienced cyclists because they won't
want to go the wiggly squiggly long way
around so why is cycling being watered
down in the capital there are several
different groups whose fault is in order
to build cycle super highways TfL needs
the cooperation of London's 32 local
boroughs the streets belong to them and
not all of them are enthusiastic about
bikes Kensington and Chelsea the
slithering of the London boroughs has
been the most obstructive of them all
cs9 which in the original proposal was
meant to go all the way to central
London was cut back in 2016 to stop here
at Kensington Olympia and cs3 which was
originally planned to go all the way to
Acton now stops here at Lancaster Gate
Kerr incidents and it's not just the
borough's halting progress delays and
cuts are also being caused by the
curious Royal Parks Commission the Royal
Parks of London a technically private
land belonging to the Queen not the
local Boris so change here has always
been slow in reluctant left when the
east-west cycle superhighway was
announced the Royal Parks did that for
so long over which way it should go
through some James's Park
TfL were forced to publish this
embarrassing map with the routes still
not decided long after construction had
started in a further poking the tires
two cyclists the Royal Parks installed
speed bumps in Hyde Park on what used to
be a really popular cycle route hitting
cyclists where it hurts the most their
balls and the Church of Our Lady of
Graces and Edward and Chizik has been
calling on their parish
literally pray for cs9 not to be built
outside their church so why do all these
groups of people hate cyclists so much
what's their beef why don't they like
cycle lanes
what's wrong with bicycle infrastructure
according to them why do they have a
problem with bicyclists what for them is
the reason that cycle infrastructure is
such a bad thing
they give several different reasons this
man said that a psychopath would spoil
the village like atmosphere of Chyzyk
but it was hard to hear him in the world
of traffic shopkeepers in Walthamstow
complained that the mini holland screen
with remove car parking spaces closed
off rat runs and make the streets farm
or cycle friendly with calls or the
shops to close down but in fact the
opposite has happened and brought the
younger to life
so mrs. panhandler from West rice tips
on cyclists when it's those drivers who
pay our road tax and cyclists pay
nothing do mrs. pan handle first of all
if that were true that would be a good
thing cars be just way more wear and
tear on roads than bikes do and second
of all it's not true Rotax is not there
to fund roads it's an income stream for
the Treasury like any other and they can
spend it on whatever they like
you wouldn't say freeloading pedestrians
don't deserve street hockey cyclist
attitude is sadly quite a common one and
this is not helped by the media
according to nearly every bike related
article you read about in the newspapers
cyclists are dangerous and irresponsible
terrorists whose fault it usually is
when an accident happens and if they
choose not to wear a helmet well they
only had it coming
this really annoys me actually the sort
of people who say why don't you wear a
helmet are usually the sort of people
who've never ridden a bike in their
lives and they're only saying it because
they want to absolve themselves of all
responsibility for cyclist safety on the
road if you really want to make cycling
safer instead of giving everyone a
helmet give them a piece of paper saying
for God's sake never ever go on the left
of a lorry because that's where almost
every cycle death happens by all means
wear a helmet if you want to it could
save your life if you're unlucky enough
to land headfirst into anything but as
for making helmets compulsory it doesn't
make cycling safer and if you don't
believe me look at Australia a country
where the wearing of helmets is
mandatory and hardly anyone cycles and
then compare that to the Netherlands on
demo where everyone rides a bike and no
one wears a helmet you don't make an
activity safer by discouraging people
from doing it you whilst it's easy to
dismiss these complaints as bunkum there
is one genuine
impossible to deny disadvantage that
does come with the building of cycle
superhighways yes it's true some cycle
lanes especially the good ones do indeed
take away space that used to be
available for cars but unfortunately
there's nowhere else practical for these
cycle lanes to go some audacious
architects have come up with some
innovative suggestions for where else to
put cycle paths other than the surface
streets
TfL proposed building CS 3 high up on
the west way conveniently crossing
Kensington and Chelsea without having to
ask their permission but this was
cancelled in 2017 because it was
impractical and terrifying and no one
was ever going to use it Norman Foster
the architect responsible for Boras
islands proposed a network of elevated
psychopaths called Skycycle
floating above London's railway lines
but this was even more unnecessarily
elaborate not to mention phenomenally
expensive and finally in my opinion that
underwhelming estab the whole a series
of lifts around the Strand going down to
disused tube tunnels converted into
psychopaths with the deeply uninspiring
name the underlined which I can think of
at least twelve better names then it's
not rocket science in cities like London
where the streets aren't getting any
wider psychopaths do have to go on the
road if only we could redesign London
from scratch imagine if our streets were
wide enough for cars buses and bikes
that would be just perfect wouldn't it
Stevenage 32 miles north of London a new
town built from scratch in the 60s where
planners weren't limited by space
they're a beautiful segregated cycle
paths everywhere but look empty the good
people of Stevenage have no incentive to
use their cycle paths their roads are
just too acceptable they don't get
massive traffic jams even in rush hour
and all the shops have got free car
parking so why would they bother with
the bike what we learned from Stevenage
is you don't just have to encourage
people onto their bikes you have to
encourage them out of their cars but
what's wrong with cars I'll tell you
what's wrong with cars cars are
incredibly space inefficient that's
what's wrong with cars look how many
people are moving through the road when
they're all in their cars not a lot but
watch what happens if you put them on
bikes and it's not just bikers who
benefit every single one of those new
cyclists is someone no longer taking up
space with the tube on the bus or in a
car yes even drivers benefit from cycle
lanes in the long term there will always
be people that have to drive like
delivery vans and construction traffic
and ambulances and giraffes in transit
and they'll all get where they're going
much faster when the road is being used
only by people that have a good excuse
for being there by the way I haven't
even been talking about pollution it
almost goes without saying that cars
pollute and bikes don't but you know
what even if all cars were electric
they'd still be just as horribly space
inefficient this isn't about air quality
it's about sustainability but it's also
about air quality so hurting drivers is
not merely a byproduct of improving
cycling it's a desired effect saying
that a cycle scheme doesn't work because
drivers are unhappy it's a bit like
saying that a diet doesn't work because
it's making you hungry London is not
Stevenage his population is expected to
hit 10 million by 2030 so if we're gonna
make room for everybody
cycling has to become more normal than
driving that's why I'm worried that
cycle progress isn't progressing there
still knows more to do
[Music]
so to sum up things are getting better
for cycling but not better enough
perhaps the most troubling thing about
the cycle superhighways is that named
superhighways it makes them sound like
they're the best they could possibly be
like they're rare and exceptional
whereas if you show them to a Dutch
person don't just think they're normal
in fact whether bare-minimum london's
cycling revolution is unfinished these
cycle lanes won't realise their
incredible potential until they're
everywhere the super highways won't be
super until there's nothing super about
them
[Music]
I've always wanted a monthly
subscription to Skillshare a monthly
scarcer subscriptions what I want the
thing I want is a monthly subscription
to Skillshare the thing I do to ask
ourselves is want while Skillshare is is
an online learning community with more
than 17,000 classes for creators it's
got videos to teach you how to do stuff
like make podcast sound really good make
animations look really good or make
music sound really good or make your
skills with operating cameras really
good personally I personally recommend
the skill share video about learning
video editing with Premiere Pro which
I've genuinely used in has been
genuinely really useful know you haven't
subscribed yet but don't worry
subscribing only cost less than $10 per
month skill shares good good good good
good good good good good good good good
good good good good
[Music]
you